docs/devops/deployment.md, before:

# Deployment

Describes deployment in general, ie on any machine and not specific to CI processes. 

Assumes fully initialized & working infrastructure.

### Precursors - Authentication & Region

Before running any commands we must set the AWS keys & session tokens to authenticate with the environment account, as well as the region to use.

To set the keys, in your web browser, authenticate with the special user `iac-user` in the SSO portal. Select the appropriate environment account then copy the environment variable export commands to set the AWS keys & tokens.

For the region, ensure that either `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` is set as an environment variable or in `~/.aws/config` under `default`. 

### Backend

The Diverst application backend is managed through AWS Elastic Beanstalk. For deployment specifics with Elastic Beanstalk refer to AWS documentation.

Backend deployment consists of two steps

1) Creating a new application version.
2) Deploying the new application version.

#### Creating a new application version

Creating a new `application version` consists of:

- Zipping the backend into an `application bundle`
- Uploading the application bundle to the environments _master s3 bucket_
- Creating a new `application version` in Elastic Beanstalk, which points to the previous uploaded `application bundle`

This process is automated through the `create-app-version` script. 

To create a new app version, run the `create-app-version` script as follows. It is required that the working directory is the app root.

- `eb-app-name` is the application name, _not_ the elastic beanstalk environment name. This should be the same as the client/environment account name.

- `app-version-label` is a label identifying this app version.

- `bucket-name` is the bucket where we store app versions. This is the same bucket where we store Terraform state. This is created in the `environment-initialization` process. 

`./create-app-version <eb-app-name> <app-version-label> <bucket-name>`

_Todo: Workflow needs to be defined for versioning_

#### Deploying an application version

Deploying an application version simply consists of making an API call to Elastic Beanstalk telling it to deploy a given application version. Elastic Beanstalk will then handle tearing down and spinning up new servers with the new version.

This process is automated through the `deploy-app-version` script

To deploy a given application version, run the `deploy-app-version` script as follows:

- `eb-app-name` is the Elastic Beanstalk environment name (_not_ the application name). This should be in the form `<env-name>-env`, ie, if our environment is staging, `staging-env`

- `app-version-label` is the label of the app version that we want to deploy.

`./deploy-app-version <eb-env-name> <app-version-label>`

### Frontend

The Diverst frontend is a React application hosted statically through S3.

Terraform manages & creates a bucket for static web hosting with a name in the form: `<env-name>-frontend-<random-postfix`. The name is outputted by Terraform.

We use a random postfix to avoid name conflicts (as S3 buckets exist in a global namespace).

To deploy the frontend, we simply need to build the frontend and then upload it to the S3 bucket. This process is managed & automated with the `deploy-frontend` script.

To deploy the frontend, run the `deploy-frontend` script as follows: 

- `frontend-bucket` - name of the frontend bucket created by Terraform.

`./create-app-version <frontend-bucket>`

Commit message:

Update account structure doc for cli-bot, script usage, password manager, update deployment docs

docs/devops/deployment.md, after:

# Deployment

Describes deployment in general, ie on any machine and not specific to CI processes. 

Assumes fully initialized & working infrastructure.

### Precursors - Authentication & Region

Because we authenticate through role assumption with the IAM user `cli-bot`, we need to retrieve the aws key id, secret access key & temporary session token. With these 3 values set as environment variables our scripts & iac tools (terraform) will be able to authenticate with the environment account

First retrieve AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID & AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY values for `cli-bot` from password manager & export into terminal. These are specifically for the cli-bot & will be reset for the new environment account by our script.

Run script `./cli-assume-role <role-arn>`, passing it the role arn from the password manager. Export the outputted values into the appropriate environment values.

Lastly, ensure that either `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` is set as an environment variable in `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` or defined in `~/.aws/config` under `default`. 

Ensure all of the following commands are run in the same terminal to make use of environment variables, otherwise scripts & iac tools will not be able to authenticate. If the terminal is closed or changed, this step must be rerun.

### Backend

The Diverst application backend is managed through AWS Elastic Beanstalk. For deployment specifics with Elastic Beanstalk refer to AWS documentation.

Backend deployment consists of two steps

1) Creating a new application version.
2) Deploying the new application version.

#### Creating a new application version

Creating a new `application version` consists of:

- Zipping the backend into an `application bundle`
- Uploading the application bundle to the environments _master s3 bucket_
- Creating a new `application version` in Elastic Beanstalk, which points to the previous uploaded `application bundle`

This process is automated through the `create-app-version` script. 

To create a new app version, run the `create-app-version` script as follows. It is required that the working directory is the app root.

- `eb-app-name` is the application name, _not_ the elastic beanstalk environment name. This should be the same as the client/environment account name.

- `app-version-label` is a label identifying this app version.

- `bucket-name` is the bucket where we store app versions. This is the same bucket where we store Terraform state. This is created in the `environment-initialization` process. 

`./create-app-version <eb-app-name> <app-version-label> <bucket-name>`

_Todo: Workflow needs to be defined for versioning_

#### Deploying an application version

Deploying an application version simply consists of making an API call to Elastic Beanstalk telling it to deploy a given application version. Elastic Beanstalk will then handle tearing down and spinning up new servers with the new version.

This process is automated through the `deploy-app-version` script

To deploy a given application version, run the `deploy-app-version` script as follows:

- `eb-app-name` is the Elastic Beanstalk environment name (_not_ the application name). This should be in the form `<env-name>-env`, ie, if our environment is staging, `staging-env`

- `app-version-label` is the label of the app version that we want to deploy.

`./deploy-app-version <eb-env-name> <app-version-label>`

### Frontend

The Diverst frontend is a React application hosted statically through S3.

Terraform manages & creates a bucket for static web hosting with a name in the form: `<env-name>-frontend-<random-postfix`. The name is outputted by Terraform.

We use a random postfix to avoid name conflicts (as S3 buckets exist in a global namespace).

To deploy the frontend, we simply need to build the frontend and then upload it to the S3 bucket. This process is managed & automated with the `deploy-frontend` script.

To deploy the frontend, run the `deploy-frontend` script as follows: 

- `frontend-bucket` - name of the frontend bucket created by Terraform.

`./create-app-version <frontend-bucket>`
